docs: Instrumentation configuration (#19765)
elastic/beats: libbeat/docs/shared-instrumentation.asciidoc

[[configuration-instrumentation]]
== Configure APM instrumentation

++++
<titleabbrev>Instrumentation</titleabbrev>
++++

Libbeat uses the Elastic APM Go Agent to instrument its publishing pipeline.

> Currently, only the Elasticsearch output is instrumented.

Reviewer: I wouldn't know how to put this, but worth mentioning that the Tracer is stored in the `Beat` object and it can be used in any beat to instrument their own code paths. Currently the one beat that actually does that is the APM Server itself.
There is no much that can users can do about this...

["source","yaml"]
----
instrumentation:
  enabled: true
  environment: production
  hosts:
    - "http://localhost:8200"
  api_key: L5ER6FEvjkmlfalBealQ3f3fLqf03fazfOV
----

[float]
=== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `instrumentation` section of the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
==== `enabled`

Set to `true` to enable instrumentation of {beatname_uc}.
Defaults to `false`.

[float]
==== `environment`

Set the environment in which {beatname_uc} is running, for example, `staging`, `production`, `dev`, etc.
Environments can be filtered in the {kibana-ref}/xpack-apm.html[APM app].

[float]
==== `hosts`

The {apm-server-ref-v}/getting-started-apm-server.html[APM Server] hosts to report instrumentation data to.
Defaults to `http://localhost:8200`.

[float]
==== `api_key`

{apm-server-ref-v}/api-key.html[API key] used to secure communication with the APM Server(s).
If `api_key` is set then `secret_token` will be ignored.

[float]
==== `secret_token`

{apm-server-ref-v}secret-token.html[Secret token] used to secure communication with the APM Server(s).

[float]
==== `profiling.cpu.enabled`

> Enable profiling of the server, recording profile samples as events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable profiling of {beatname_uc}, recording profile samples as events.
```

Or maybe just simplify to "Set to true to enable CPU profiling.", like for heap.
